CSS Grid Layout Module


GRID LAYOUT:

The CSS Grid Layout Module offers a grid-based layout system, with rows and columns, making it easier to design web pages without having to use floats and positioning.

Browser Support:

The grid properties are supported in all modern browsers.


Display Property:

An HTML element becomes a grid container when its display property is set to grid or inline-grid or subgrid.

All direct children of the grid container automatically become grid items/children.



GRID_TEMPLATE:

Defines the rows and columns of the grid.


grid-template-columns: 12px 12px 12px;

The grid-template-columns property defines the number of columns in your grid layout, and it can define the width of each column.
The value is a space-separated-list, where each value defines the width of the respective column.

If you want your grid layout to contain 4 columns, specify the width of the 4 columns, or "auto" if all columns should have the same width.

grid-template-rows: 12px 12px 12px;

The grid-template-rows property defines the height of each row.

Grid Columns
The vertical lines of grid items are called columns.

Grid Rows
The horizontal lines of grid items are called rows.


GRID GAP: grid-gap
Specifies the size of column and row gutters.

You can adjust the gap size by using one of the following properties:

grid-column-gap
grid-row-gap
grid-gap


Grid Lines:
The lines between columns are called column lines.

The lines between rows are called row lines.



JUTIFY CONTENT:
The justify-content property is used to align the whole grid inside the container.
 The grid's total width has to be less than the container's width for the justify-content property to have any effect.

The align-content Property
The align-content property is used to vertically align the whole grid inside the container.

Note: The grid's total height has to be less than the container's height for the align-content property to have any effect.



#Child Elements (Items)::


The grid-column Property:
The grid-column property defines on which column(s) to place an item.

You define where the item will start, and where the item will end.

Note: The grid-column property is a shorthand property for the grid-column-start and the grid-column-end properties.

The grid-row Property:
The grid-row property defines on which row to place an item.

You define where the item will start, and where the item will end.

Note: The grid-row property is a shorthand property for the grid-row-start and the grid-row-end properties.

To place an item, you can refer to line numbers, or use the keyword "span" to define how many rows the item will span:


The grid-area Property
The grid-area property can be used as a shorthand property for the grid-row-start, grid-column-start, grid-row-end and the grid-column-end properties.

Naming Grid Items
The grid-area property can also be used to assign names to grid items.
Named grid items can be referred to by the grid-template-areas property of the grid container.

The Order of the Items
The Grid Layout allows us to position the items anywhere we like.

The first item in the HTML code does not have to appear as the first item in the grid.

You can re-arrange the order for certain screen sizes, by using media queries: